docs/ALTERNATIVES.md, before:

There are several great Emacs search tools available! I have learnt
lots when playing with these and reading their source code. You might
even find you end up using these as well as deadgrep, depending on
your workflow.

## counsel

[Counsel](https://github.com/abo-abo/swiper) provides the command
`counsel-rg` (and similar commands `counsel-ag` and `counsel-ack`).

![screenshot](./counsel_rg_screenshot.png)

These provide as-you-type search results. This is a different style of
working to deadgrep.el, and it's a great complementary tool.

## ag.el

[ag.el](https://github.com/Wilfred/ag.el/) allows you to use `ag` for
Emacs searches. I wrote it, but I've learnt a lot about good search
UIs since I built ag.el.

`ag` is not quite as fast as `rg`, so results come more slowly. Note
that [`rg` currently doesn't support multiline
searches](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep/issues/176), unlike `ag`.

ag.el has a lot of search commands to memorise:

* `ag`
* `ag-project`
* `ag-project-files`
* `ag-files`
* `ag-regexp`
* `ag-project-regexp`

This only covers some of the possible filter combinations, and caused
confusion for users who expected regexp search to be the default.

![screenshot](./ag_screenshot.png)

Results buffers here are much busier, showing superfluous
information. This is because ag.el is built on top of
`compilation-mode`, which isn't a great fit for searching.

ag.el has a few tests, but coverage is significantly lower than
deadgrep.

ag.el has support for editing files from the results buffer, using
[wgrep](https://github.com/mhayashi1120/Emacs-wgrep).

## rg.el

[rg.el](https://github.com/dajva/rg.el) targets `rg`, and the results
buffer shows what type of search occurred.

![screenshot](./rg_el_screenshot.png)

However, it's still built on `compilation-mode`, and does not group
results by file. It also (as far as I can tell) always prompts for a
directory and a file type, requiring additional keystrokes.

rg.el is very thoroughly tested.

## ripgrep.el

[ripgrep.el](https://github.com/nlamirault/ripgrep.el), and
projectile-ripgrep (part of the same project), is an alternative to
rg.el.

![screenshot](./ripgrep_el_screenshot.png)

This is also using `compilation-mode` without grouping
results. `projectile-ripgrep` saves you needing to specify the search
directory (just like deadgrep and ag.el).

## socyl

[Socyl](https://github.com/nlamirault/socyl) is a generic text search
tool that supports `rg` plus others.

![screenshot](./socyl_screenshot.png)

Socyl is also based on `compilation-mode`, and does not group results
by file. As it's generic, users must specify a search backend, as well
as specifying the directory on every invocation.

## grep

`M-x grep` is a built-in Emacs command.

![screenshot](./grep_screenshot.png)

Users must specify the glob and the search term as part of a raw
`grep` command. This means your `.gitignore` is ignored, unlike `rg`,
`ag` or `ack`. This command also uses `compilation-mode`.

Commit message:

Mention the advantages of the other tools
We should celebrate the range of tools in the emacs ecosystem!

Fixes #2

docs/ALTERNATIVES.md, after:

There are several great Emacs search tools available! I have learnt
lots when playing with these and reading their source code. You might
even find you end up using these as well as deadgrep, depending on
your workflow.

## counsel

[Counsel](https://github.com/abo-abo/swiper) provides the command
`counsel-rg` (and similar commands `counsel-ag` and `counsel-ack`).

![screenshot](./counsel_rg_screenshot.png)

This uses counsel's incremental searching UI.

**Great for**: As-you-type search results.

## ag.el

[ag.el](https://github.com/Wilfred/ag.el/) allows you to use `ag` for
Emacs searches. I wrote it, but I've learnt a lot about good search
UIs since I built ag.el.

`ag` is not quite as fast as `rg`, so results come more slowly. Note
that [`rg` currently doesn't support multiline
searches](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep/issues/176), unlike `ag`.

ag.el has a lot of search commands to memorise:

* `ag`
* `ag-project`
* `ag-project-files`
* `ag-files`
* `ag-regexp`
* `ag-project-regexp`

This only covers some of the possible filter combinations, and caused
confusion for users who expected regexp search to be the default.

![screenshot](./ag_screenshot.png)

Results buffers here are much busier, showing superfluous
information. This is because ag.el is built on top of
`compilation-mode`, which isn't a great fit for searching.

ag.el has a few tests, but coverage is significantly lower than
deadgrep.

**Great for**: Searching with `ag`, binding a different search to
different keys, and editing files from the results buffer using
[wgrep](https://github.com/mhayashi1120/Emacs-wgrep).

## rg.el

[rg.el](https://github.com/dajva/rg.el) targets `rg`, and the results
buffer shows what type of search occurred.

![screenshot](./rg_el_screenshot.png)

It's built on `compilation-mode`, and you can use `rg-group-result` to
combine results.

**Great for**: if you want a ripgrep tool with excellent test
coverage, you have `compilation-mode` shortcuts, or if you do lots of
searches for words (`rg-dwim` is excellent).

## ripgrep.el

[ripgrep.el](https://github.com/nlamirault/ripgrep.el), and
projectile-ripgrep (part of the same project), is an alternative to
rg.el.

![screenshot](./ripgrep_el_screenshot.png)

This is also using `compilation-mode` without grouping
results. 

**Great for**: ripgrep searches starting in the project root.

## socyl

[Socyl](https://github.com/nlamirault/socyl) is a generic text search
tool that supports `rg` plus others.

![screenshot](./socyl_screenshot.png)

Socyl is also based on `compilation-mode`, and does not group results
by file AFAICS. As it's generic, users must specify a search backend,
as well as specifying the directory.

**Great for**: Using the same search UI with multiple different search
tools.

## grep

`M-x grep` is a built-in Emacs command.

![screenshot](./grep_screenshot.png)

Users must specify the glob and the search term as part of a raw
`grep` command. This means your `.gitignore` is ignored, unlike `rg`,
`ag` or `ack`. This command also uses `compilation-mode`.

**Great for**: Doing a text search using only built-in tools.
